---
layout: post
title: Lab 08
description: Lab 08
category: lab
---

Lab attendance is *your* responsibility.
*Before you leave this and all future labs you must ensure that your name is on one of the check-in sheets.*
You will no longer be given credit if your name can not be found on one of those sheets.

---------------------------------------

[lab08.zip][lab08.zip] contains all of the starter template code for constructing your programs.
Implement the functions `push_bits()` and `pop_bits()` for the first checkpoint,
`bit_twiddling()` for the second, and `decode()` for the final checkpoint.

## Pushing and popping bits

Using the shift left operator (`<<`), we can "append" bits onto our values by shifting and then applying an OR operation onto the new value.
Left shifting a 1 onto a 0 will yield 1.  Left shifting a 1 onto a 4 (`100`) will yield 9 (`1001`).
Likewise, the right shift operator (`>>`) will shift values off the right (least significant) side, turning `1011` into `101` after a single right shift.
Change the values you pass into `push_bits()`: do you notice any patterns?

## Bit Twiddling

Let's say you're interested in a specific range of 10 bits inside another value.
How do you access them?
[*Bit masks*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mask_(computing)).
A bit mask allows you to eliminate all irrelevant bits leaving behind only the bits that you care about.
A very common way to create a bit mask for, say 10 bits would be to left shift 1 by 10 and then subtract one.
Why?
Because all that will remain will be 1's which will allow us to AND away the uninteresting values.
(Try it: 1 << 10 = 1024, 1024 - 1 = 1023 and in binary, 0b1111111111).
Now we can shift our values around and apply a mask to arrive at our values of interest.

## Instruction decode (sort of)

Using the `bit_twiddling()` function you implemented above as well as this [page of MIPS instruction formats](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/MIPS_Assembly/Instruction_Formats), write the `decode()` function to test the appropriate bits of the instruction argument to determine whether it is an R-type instruction or not.

## Basic boolean gates

[lab08.zip]: {{site.base}}/files/lab08.zip
