---
layout: post
title: Lab 10
description: Lab 10
category: lab
date: 2016-04-19 # Remove later
---

Lab attendance is *your* responsibility.
*Before you leave this and all future labs you must ensure that your name is on one of the check-in sheets.*
You will no longer be given credit if your name can not be found on one of those sheets.

---------------------------------------

<br>

I am concerned that many of you have not put in enough time on the coming project.
This entire lab is dedicated to making progress on the group project.

## Have a Group

Having a group is a great way to start.
Once you have a group, a project will be created for you.
Single person groups are discouraged but allowed.
If you still do not have a group, the graduate TA or Prof. will be able to create one for you.
If you already have a repository, show any of the TAs your code.

## Have a Plan

Having a plan in place is a great way to stay on task.
Each group member should have an assignment, e.g., write the `iplc_sim_push_pipeline_stage()` function.
Use your preferred method of communication (email, WhatsApp, talking, smoke signals) with your group members to to break up responsibilities.
Alternately, your group can experiment with Github issues, available near the top of your group repo page.

## Work on the Project

Use the remainder of this lab period to make progress on your project.
You can ask the TAs for help.
Good tips:

* Always do a `git pull --rebase` before beginning a hacking session.
* Always do a `git pull --rebase` before you a `git push` to make sure you have everyone's changes.
* Do `git commit` in logical "chunks."  For example, after you complete a function.

Note that although I had previously said you should *never* rebase, in this case it isn't a bad idea.
While git branches are my preferred method of collaboration, I do not believe the size of this project warrants their use.
